---

title: Assets_files
source: https://developer.monday.com/api-reference/reference/assets-1
author:
  - Monday
published:
created: 2025-05-25
description: Learn how to read, add, and upload assets using the monday.com platform API
tags: [code, api, monday-dot-com]
summary:

---

# Assets (files)

Learn how to read, add, and upload assets using the monday.com platform API

Files that you upload to monday.com are saved as an asset, and each asset has a unique ID to identify it within an account.

As a developer working with monday.com, it is important to familiarize yourself with the assets API so you know how to access asset data. This document will walk you through the available queries and mutations to read and modify the assets object via the API.

# Queries

Required scope: assets:read

- Returns an array containing metadata about one or a collection of assets
- Can be queried directly at the root using the ids argument or nested nested within an items or updates query

GraphQLJavaScript
```
{
  boards (ids:1234567890) {
    items_page (limit:100) {
      items {
        assets {
          id
          url
          name
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

```
fetch ("https://api.monday.com/v2", {
  method: 'post',
  headers: {
    'Content-Type': 'application/json',
    'Authorization' : 'YOUR_API_KEY_HERE'
   },
   body: JSON.stringify({
     query : "query { boards (ids: 1234567890) { items_page (limit: 100) { items { assets { id url name } } } } }";
   })
  });
```

## Arguments

You can use the following argument(s) to reduce the number of results returned in your assets query.

Argument | Description
--- | ---
ids[ID!]! | The asset's unique identifiers.

## Fields

You can use the following field(s) to specify what information your assets query will return.

Field | Description
--- | ---
created_atDate | The asset's creation date.
file_extensionString! | The asset's extension.
file_sizeInt! | The asset's size in bytes.
idID! | The asset's unique identifier.
nameString! | The asset's name.
original_geometryString | The asset's original geometry.
public_urlString! | The asset's public URL (valid for 1 hour). Accessing this link will allow users without a monday.com user profile to see the file directly while the link is valid.
uploaded_byUser! | The user who uploaded the asset.Please notethat this field will not return anything if the asset is a duplicate of something generated by a system.
urlString! | The asset's URL. This will only be available to users who have access to the file as part of your account. If the asset is stored on aprivateorshareableboard, it will also need to be part of the board in question.
url_thumbnailString | The URL to view the asset in thumbnail mode. Only available for images.

# Mutations

Using the API, you can upload JPEG, Word/Doc, PDF, XLSX, GIF, MP4, CSV, SVG, TXT, and AI files to monday.com. Files are saved as assets and always belong to a parent object (like an item or an update).

## 👍Files endpoint

Using the following endpoint, you can upload files up to 500 MB in size via the API: https://api.monday.com/v2/file .

### Making multipart requests

If you are making direct requests to the API, you have to use the multipart/form-data content type, as described in our community . Depending on the language or library, you may need to construct the body of the multipart HTTP request manually. Check out a JavaScript example in this community post .

## Add a file to an update

Required scope: updates:write

The add_file_to_update mutation allows you to add a file to an update via the API. You can also specify what fields to query back when you run the mutation. Please note that the file will be added to the bottom of the update.

GraphQLPython
```
mutation {
  add_file_to_update (update_id: 1234567890, file: YOUR_FILE) {
    id
  }
}
```

```
import requests

apiKey = "YOUR_TOKEN_HERE"
headers = {"Authorization" : apiKey, 'API-version':'2024-04'}
url = "https://api.monday.com/v2/file"
payload = {'query': 'mutation ($file: File!) { add_file_to_update (file: $file, update_id: 1234567890) { id } }',
	'map': '{"image":"variables.file"}'
 }
files=[
  ('image',('file',open('/path/to/my/file.svg','rb'),'application/octet-stream'))
]

response = requests.post(url, headers=headers, data=payload, files=files)
```

### Arguments

You can use the following argument(s) to specify which file to add and to what update.

Argument | Description
--- | ---
fileFile! | The file to upload.
update_idID! | The unique identifier of the update where the file will be added. You can also use a reply ID to add the file to an update's reply.

## Add file to the file column

Required scope: boards:write

The add_file_to_column mutation will add a file to the file column of a specific item. You can also specify what fields to query back when you run the mutation.

GraphQLPythoncURL
```
mutation {
  add_file_to_column (item_id: 1234567890, column_id: "files", file: YOUR_FILE) {
    id
  }
}
```

```
import requests

apiKey = "YOUR_TOKEN_HERE"
headers = {"Authorization" : apiKey, 'API-version':'2024-04'}
url = "https://api.monday.com/v2/file"
payload = {
    'query': 'mutation add_file($file: File!) {add_file_to_column (item_id: 6530743418, column_id:"files__1" file: $file) {id}}',
    'map': '{"image":"variables.file"}'
    }
files=[
  ('image',('file',open('/path/to/my/file.svg','rb'),'application/octet-stream'))
]

response = requests.post(url, headers=headers, data=payload, files=files)
```

```
curl --location 'https://api.monday.com/v2/file' \                          
--header 'API-Version: 2024-01' \
--header 'Authorization: thisisasecret' \
--form 'query="mutation($item_id: ID!, $column_id: String!, $file: File!) { add_file_to_column(item_id: $item_id, column_id: $column_id, file: $file) { id } }"' \
--form 'variables="{\"item_id\": 123456, \"column_id\": \"files\"}"' \
--form 'map="{\"file\":\"variables.file\"}"' \
--form 'file=@/Users/me/Pictures/MyCat.png'
```

### Arguments

You can use the following argument(s) to specify which files to add and to what item.

Arguments | Description
--- | ---
column_idString! | The unique identifier of the column where the file will be added.
fileFile! | The file to upload.
item_idID! | The unique identifier of the item where the file will be added.

## 📘Join our developer community!

We've created a community specifically for our devs where you can search through previous topics to find solutions, ask new questions, hear about new features and updates, and learn tips and tricks from other devs. Come join in on the fun! 😎
